# Browser Support

> Who still uses Internet Explorer?
> 

---

# Overview

Browser support or compatibility refers to the extent that your website supports the various browsers used in the world today. Not all browsers are as up-to-date with current standards and support the same features (looking at you Internet Explorer). This is further complicated by the fact that people do not all use the same browsers nor the same versions. As a result, different features in CSS and JS have different levels of support across different browsers. Depending on what CSS and JS you write, the people who can use your website can grow or shrink. 

# Solutions

The most straightforward solution is to use older code features that are more widely supported. This means declaring functions using `function` instead of `() => {}` in JS. This means adding [prefixes](https://www.thoughtco.com/css-vendor-prefixes-3466867#:~:text=CSS%20vendor%20prefixes%2C%20also%20sometimes,fully%20supported%20in%20all%20browsers.) to certain CSS properties. However, this is very unideal as you would be writing old code that is likely to be harder to read, maintain, etc. A helpful tool that you can use to check whether a feature is widely supported is caniuse.com. 

[Can I use... Support tables for HTML5, CSS3, etc](https://caniuse.com/)

The better and more involved solution is to use transpilers and preprocessors to automatically translate your code that uses newer features into code that uses older features. For example, `Babel` can transpile ES6 JS code back into ES5. The `autoprefixer` plugin for `PostCSS` automatically adds the vendor prefixes for your CSS. These tools are usually automatically integrated into your tool chain by default. Otherwise, integrating them should be relatively straightforward as well if you refer to online guides. 

# The Current Landscape

Is caring about browser support even as necessary now? Not really no. As of now (2/12/23), users have gradually transitioned into using up-to-date modern browsers, and it all depends on your target audience.

If your project targets users likely relying on old browsers, then you’ll definitely want to bolster your browser support. 

If your project targets average internet users, then you might even be able to get away with using ES6 JS syntax without any transpiling. 

Most modern browsers today support all of the features you will be using, and it is only really browsers like Internet Explorer that still require extensive compatibility efforts. `[Vite` even uses ES module syntax by default and has legacy options as a plugin you need to add additionally](https://vitejs.dev/guide/build.html#browser-compatibility). 

# Don’t Overthink It

The bottom line is that, unless you plan to take your project to a professional level or target old users, you can just use the default support provided by your tool chain. 

Variations between browser’s will be inevitable, so don’t be surprised if your site looks slightly different across different browsers. The effort needed to maintain 100% fidelity across all platforms is simply not worth it. As long as everything looks and works properly, you should avoid over-engineering things for little gain.