# Bundlers

> Annoying and painful to work with, yet such lifesavers
> 

---

## What is a bundler?

Bundlers are tools that do as they are named: they bundle your site/app. In other words, they take all the code that makes up your app and puts it together into a neat package suitable to be shipped to users’ browsers. Essentially they are programs that run on your code and transform it in certain ways into a production-ready version. You usually see them in action when you build your app with an `npm` command. Some bundlers that you may have heard of are Webpack, Parcel, ESBuild, Rollup, and more. Most frontend frameworks and meta frameworks come with pre-configured bundlers on setup. Vite for example uses ESBuild and Rollup out of the box. 

While all the different configurations, additional tools under-the-hood, and unhelpful documentation may seem daunting, bundlers are very well worth the trouble for the services they provide:

## 1. Code Minification and Bundling

Your variables and functions might be named like `getUserData` so that you and others can easily identify them. This is helpful during development, but at the end of the day the browser and the user don’t care what names you use in your code. As a result, simplifying names to one or two letters and removing extra spacing significantly decreases the file size and reduces the amount of data that needs to be sent to the end user, something that is crucial for users with poor connections for example. This is important for JS and CSS files. 

In addition to minification, bundlers can also combine code from multiple files so that the browser only needs to load a few compact files. Alternatively, bundlers can also split a single large file into multiple smaller chunks. 

## 2. Browser Support and Code Transpiling

Not all browsers have the same level of support for the newest features of JS or CSS. No browser supports raw Typescript. Thus you might be forced to only use old supported features in your code and avoid new and useful ones. 

Or, you could use on your bundler to transpile the code into older, supported code automatically for you so you can continue to use the new features. Neat.

## 3. Filename Hashes

Another neat trick bundlers do is that they usually add unique hashes to the names of the files they produce. Browsers normally cache resources and files to reduce unnecessary file fetching. If you make a change to your app and the filename stays the same however, users might need to wait a while before they see your changes since they would need to wait for the cache to expire and for the browser to refetch the files. If you have unique hashes generated for your files on change however, then the browser will immediately know when to fetch the updated version of the file. 

## 4. Other Quality of Life

Bundlers come with a lot of customization and plugin options, in fact many of the services they provide are made possible by integrating other existing tools. This results in many additional possibilities when it comes to your development experience. For example, many bundlers include PostCSS and Autoprefixer, automatically adding in all the `-moz`, `-webkit`, etc. css property prefixes that you would normally have to manually include. Another plugin might allow you to nest CSS properties and automatically de-nest them when you bundle everything.