# Javascript

> Things can get very messy
> 

---

Below are some general opinions for writing cleaner Javascript. They are not absolute, and you definitely may have some reasons to not follow some if not all of them. Otherwise, the only thing more perfect than perfect is consistency.

---

## 1. Always use semicolons where appropriate

Refer to this quote from [here](https://dev.to/adriennemiller/semicolons-in-javascript-to-use-or-not-to-use-2nli):

> The reason semicolons are sometimes optional in JavaScript is because of automatic semicolon insertion, or ASI. ASI doesn’t mean that actual semicolons are inserted into your code, it’s more of a set of rules used by JavaScript that will determine whether or not a semicolon will be interpreted in certain spots.
> 

Semicolons in Javascript are optional. While they are optional however, it's a good habit to always use semicolons where appropriate to prevent code ambiguity and dumb bugs. 

## 2. Space out your code where appropriate

Just like dense text, dense code is difficult to read. Python was designed to be clean, Javascript less so. Unfortunately, you can end up with beauties like this:

```jsx
// this perfectly works
const now = new Date();
const helloNow = function(){const time=new Date();if(time===now){console.log('Hello');}}
```

Spacing it out will make it much more readable:

```jsx
const now = new Date();
const helloNow = function() {
		const time = new Date();

		if(time === now) {
				console.log('hello');
		}
}
```

## 3. Sometimes it’s good to condense

Contrary to guideline #2, condensing your code can be done in certain circumstances (though, this is uncommon and usually less needed). This usually applies for when you have short, simple logic that can be collapsed without jeopardizing readability. Generally not recommended though, unless it's really that spacey.

Ex:

```jsx
const isError = checkForError();
if(isError) {
		console.log('There was an error!');
}

const isError2 = checkForError2();
if(isError2) {
		console.log('There was an error!');
}

const isError3 = checkForError3();
if(isError3) {
		console.log('There was an error!');
}
```

Condensed into:

```jsx
const isError = checkforError();
if(isError) { console.log('There was an error!'); }

const isError2 = checkforError2();
if(isError2) { console.log('There was an error!'); }

const isError3 = checkforError3();
if(isError3) { console.log('There was an error!'); }
```

## 4. Catch all async functions

Async functions are similar to python try-except blocks in some ways. Make sure to always add a catch method if there is a chance for failure. This especially applies for API calls. 

```jsx
// promises
somePromise().then(() => {
		// ...
}).catch(err => {
		// error handling
});

// await syntax
try {
		await somePromise();
} catch (err) {
		// error handling
}
```

## 5. Check if there's a library for it

Javascript is known notoriously for its numerous libraries. Before trying to do something complicated, it might be good to see if there's already any nice libraries that can do it for you. If it's not too painful to implement yourself, however, it's usually better to not use a library. 

## 6. Stay consistent

Javascript tends to have multiple ways of doing things. Defining functions, variables, and more. Usually there are good reasons to pick one over another, but the main thing to pay attention to is to stay consistent throughout—whether that is naming variables, defining functions, making API calls, or more.