# Typescript

> Static typing for a dynamically typed language?
> 

---

## The Problem

If you’ve worked with Javascript in the past, you’ve probably come up with situations where you lose track of whether a function returns a string or a number, if a variable is a boolean or a 0/1 encoding, etc. Unlike a lot of other languages, Javascript is a dynamically-typed language, meaning that variables and function arguments do not have a strict data-type limiting what values they can hold.  

While this may be good for certain scenarios, like quickly drafting a simple piece of logic, often times it does more harm than good for developing complex and context-full applications. 

## Typescript

Typescript adds static typing to Javascript. These type annotations let your IDE or code editor understand your code better, warn you when there is a type mismatch, and give auto-complete suggestions. Most developers find that once they use typescript, it becomes hard to go back to javascript because of all the conveniences that typescript provides.

You can think of Typescript as something built on top of javascript or as a subset of javascript (all javascript is valid typescript, but not all typescript is valid javascript). It works by compiling Typescript code back into Javascript code. In sum, the only difference between Typescript and Javascript is Typescript’s type definitions/annotations. Typescript is more of a Javascript extension than a separate language. 

Note that **Typescript is mainly a tool that helps you catch mistakes** while you write code. It merely helps you keep track of data types and does not always guarantee that the data will be that type when the code is run. **Types are annotations that help your IDE see issues in your code. They are not built-in guards in the code runtime that throw errors if an int is a string**. 

## Learning Typescript

There aren’t too many good resources and places to start learning Typescript that are concise. However a concise and good place to start is [Fireship’s video](https://youtu.be/ahCwqrYpIuM). You can probably also reference the [official documentation and website](https://www.typescriptlang.org/). 

Usually the best way to learn it is to use it. Since javascript is still valid typescript, you can just continue writing normal javascript and gradually add in type definitions and annotations as you become comfortable and familiar. 

Again, **javascript is valid typescript**, and often times you might not even need to add any typescript to a typescript file. **Do not feel that you need to add type definitions to everything**. Typescript has a strong ability to infer things—take advantage of that. At the end of the day, it should be helping you instead of blocking you. It’s fine if you need to spend a little extra adding types to save a bunch of time down the line. It’s not fine if most of your time is spent writing type definitions that you rarely rely on. 

## Adding Typescript to your project

Most tool chains already have options during setup for adding typescript to the project that do everything for you. If you’re adding typescript to a project with existing `.js` files, you might need to set `allowJS` to `true` in `tsconfig.json` to prevent typescript from lighting up your existing JS files.