# Linters

Linting is an important part of writing good Python code. It is a tool that helps you detect potential errors in your code, as well as identify coding conventions that could make your code easier for others to read and understand. 

- ********************************Why do we lint?********************************
    
    Linting can help you find typos in your code, such as misspelled variable names or incorrect indentation. It can also point out when you are using features of the language that are not recommended, or even deprecated. This can help you write code that is more consistent and error-free. In addition, linting can help you enforce coding conventions such as spacing and indentation. These conventions can make it easier for other people to read and understand your code. This is especially important when you are working with a team of developers, as it helps make sure that everyone is following the same coding style.
    

---

## IDE-based Linting

If you are using VSCode, you’re in luck! The IDE supports in-client linting for Python code, making the process of finding issues that much easier 👊

[💾 Linting in VSCode Tutorial](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/python/linting) 

## Package-based Linting

Several Python packages have been developed to help clean up your code and conform to industry-best standards. Here’s a few you may find useful:

- `pylint`
    
    Install the `pylint` package like so:
    
    ```bash
    pip install pylint
    ```
    
    `pylint` scores your file out of 10 in terms of code cleanliness. You can set lower bound values, and for files that fall below that threshold, an error will be thrown, letting you know which files to look into.
    
    ```bash
    pylint --fail-under=VALUE file_name.py
    ```
    
    ************Resources:************
    
    [✍️ pylint @ Pypi](https://pypi.org/project/pylint/) 
    
- `black`
    
    `black` is an auto-formatter package that reshapes your Python code to be more readable. It also supports formatting for Jupyter notebooks. You install it like so:
    
    **********************For Python:**********************
    
    ```bash
    pip install black
    ```
    
    ************************For Jupyter:************************
    
    ```bash
    pip install 'black[jupyter]'
    ```
    
    You can run it as its own command or as a module on your files like so:
    
    **************Command:**************
    
    ```bash
    black file_name.py
    ```
    
    ************Module************
    
    ```bash
    python -m black file_name.py
    ```
    
    If you would like to **********avoid********** auto-formatting and just see what changes ************should************ be made, simply append `diff` to your call like so:
    
    ```bash
    black file_name.py --diff
    ```
    
    ********************Resources:********************
    
    [✍️ black @ pypi](https://pypi.org/project/black/)
    
- `isort`
    
    Import statements should follow pep8 rules, which state that imports should be grouped like:
    
    1. Standard libraries
    2. Third-party imports
    3. Local modules, etc. 
    
    If you come across files that do not follow this and don’t want to manually edit them, you can use the `isort` package to auto-format your import statements. 
    
    Install it like so:
    
    ```bash
    pip install isort
    ```
    
    Run it on your files:
    
    ```bash
    isort file_name.py 
    ```
    
    **************************************Resources:**************************************
    
    [✍️ isort @ pypi](https://pypi.org/project/isort/)
    

These are far from the only packages that can help you write good Python code! 

[🌐 Other Python Linters](https://www.realpythonproject.com/how-to-automate-formatting-and-linting-in-python/)

---

Writing in JavaScript? You can read about JavaScript linters here:

[Linters](https://www.notion.so/Linters-62ce6b956bba411ca7a74b27a218dedf)