# Lazy Loading

> Procrastination is beneficial sometimes
> 

---

## Overview

Lazy loading is when your app retrieves files and assets as the user needs instead of all at once in the beginning. For example, if your app has page A and page B, and the user requests for page A, then only page A and its necessary resources are sent to the user’s browser. When the user visits page B, only then are the resources for page B requested and loaded. If the assets for page A and page B are both 60kb in size for example, then the user would only be loading 60kb initially, then another 60kb when they visit page B, instead of 120kb in the beginning.

This “send only when necessary” policy means that necessary resources only for the current page are sent, which can significantly reduce the amount of data the user needs to download at a time. 

Of course the downside is that there can be a wait time while fetching the required files (since the loading is merely pushed until it is needed), so it is most effective for pages that the user is unlikely to access or for Single Page Applications where loading everything at once takes too long. 

## Implementation

If you’re using the Static Site Generation strategy with Nest, Astro, etc. then lazy loading is usually the default routing behavior so you probably don’t need to do anything. Astro has more fine-grained control where you can specify to load the files when the browser is idle, when the component is scrolled into view, and more. 

Otherwise you can specify lazy loading behavior using the React `Lazy` method and `dynamic imports`. Please reference documentation for specific details:

[lazy](https://beta.reactjs.org/reference/react/lazy#usage)